This .md details the overarching objectives of the Core-Transient scale analyses, hypotheses, and associated questions. 
It also highlights which pieces of .R code in the folder are associated with specific objectives of these analyses.  


2 primary components: 

1) characterize how calculated occupancy patterns in BBS alone vary with scale 

* shift in temporal occupancy, specifically the proportion of core species in an assemblage, from transient to core 

	- how does that shift happen and what impacts it? 

* geographic context within a site: landscape heterogeneity, ndvi 

	- we already know bbs routes in more heterogenous landscape have more transient species than homogenous landscapes at the same scale

* scale patterns: we expect mean occupancy (incidence of core species designation) to increase with larger spatial scales 

* how do occupancy patterns differ between homogenous and heterogenous landscapes as scale increases? 

	- might include diffs in slope and leveling off between the two landscapes when plotted as separate curves

	- as we change scale in a more heterogeneous region or route, how does temporal occupancy vary:

	- i) at the scale of a bbs route
	
	- ii) at scales below a BBS route
	
		- at different scale-associated BBS route segments comprised of collapsed 50 stop data 
		
		- segments: collapse and calc occupancy for every 25, 10, 5 stops (2, 5, 10 segments generated per BBS route) 
		
		- calculate spp occupancy within a given segment 
	
	- iii) and at scales above a BBS route? 
	
		- across clustered routes 


* can extract temporal occupancy values for every spp 

	- plot against averages 


# Roadmap: 
# core scale: a subset of the core-transient project 
Master's thesis research: data, methods, results, and figures


This repo contains the final workflow and scripts of the core-transient scale analysis project. The workflow and order of scripts is as follows: 

1) pre_analysis_tidyload.R - This script downloads Breeding Bird Survey (BBS) 50-stop resolution data through ecoretriever. It also pares the data down to only routes with 15 consecutive years (2000-2014) of data available. 

2) a) core_scale_analyses.R - This script takes cleaned BBS 50-stop data from the previous script and renders the proportion of core species for ecological assemblages across 69 spatial scales. It also generates descriptive parameters characterizing the relationship between the proportion of core species and scale for all sampled assemblages.   

    b) core_scale_analyses50.R - This supplemental script takes cleaned BBS 50-stop data from the previous script and renders the proportion of core species for ecological assemblages across 69 spatial scales, using a cutoff threshold of 50% (e.g. 2/4) for determing the proportion of core species in a given assemblage.It also generates descriptive parameters characterizing the relationship between the proportion of core species and scale for all sampled assemblages.   

    c) core_scale_analyses80.R - This supplemental script takes cleaned BBS 50-stop data from the previous script and renders the proportion of core species for ecological assemblages across 69 spatial scales, using a cutoff threshold of 80% (e.g. 4/5) for determing the proportion of core species in a given assemblage.It also generates descriptive parameters characterizing the relationship between the proportion of core species and scale for all sampled assemblages.   

3) envs_processing.R - This script downloads and cleans elevation and NDVI raster data for use as proxies of environmental heterogeneity, based on site locations and the samples scales. 

4) coef_hetero_analyses.R - This script tests the correlation of the core-scale relationship parameters and environmental heterogeneity. 

5) figures_script.R - This script uses intermediate data files and analyses generated by the previous scripts to create descriptive figures. 

